[user-authn] Update info about implementing authentication into a user application (#7394)
deckhouse/deckhouse: modules/150-user-authn/docs/FAQ.md

title: "The user-authn module: FAQ"
---

{% raw %}

## How to secure my application?

It is possible to hide your application behind Dex authentication by using the `DexAuthenticator` custom resource (CR).

> In fact, by creating the DexAuthenticator in a cluster, user creates an instance [oauth2-proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy), which is already connected to Dex.

Reviewer: To enable Dex authentication for an application, follow these steps:
1. Create a custom resource [DexAuthenticator](cr.html#dexauthenticator) ?

> In fact, by creating the DexAuthenticator in a cluster, user creates an instance [oauth2-proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy), which is already connected to Dex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable Dex authentication for an application, follow these steps:
1. Create a custom resource [DexAuthenticator](cr.html#dexauthenticator).
```

title: "The user-authn module: FAQ"
---

{% raw %}

## How to secure my application?

To enable Dex authentication for your application, follow these steps:
1. Create a [DexAuthenticator](cr.html#dexauthenticator) custom resource.

   Creating `DexAuthenticator` in a cluster results in an [oauth2-proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy) instance being created. The latter is connected to Dex. Once the `DexAuthenticator` custom resource becomes available, the necessary Deployment, Service, Ingress, Secret objects will be created in the specified namespace.

   An example of the `DexAuthenticator` custom resource:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1
   kind: DexAuthenticator
   metadata:
     # Dex authenticator pod name prefix.
     # For example, if the name prefix is `app-name`, then Dex authenticator pods will look like `app-name-dex-authenticator-7f698684c8-c5cjg`.
     name: app-name
     # Namespace to deploy Dex authenticator to.
     namespace: app-ns
   spec:
     # Your application's domain. Requests to it will be redirected for Dex authentication.
     applicationDomain: "app-name.kube.my-domain.com"

>      # A parameter that determines whether to send the `Authorization: Bearer` header to the application. This one is useful in combination with auth_request in NGINX.

Author: ```suggestion
     # A parameter that determines whether to send the `Authorization: Bearer` header to the application.
     # This one is useful in combination with auth_request in NGINX.
```

  - everyone
  - admins
  whitelistSourceRanges:
  - 1.1.1.1/32
  - 192.168.0.0/24
```

> After the `DexAuthenticator` custom resource is created in the cluster, Kubernetes will make the necessary deployment, service, ingress, secret in the specified namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the appearance of the custom resource `DexAuthenticator`, the necessary Deployment, Service, Ingress, Secret objects will appear in the specified namespace.
```

Add the following annotations to your app's Ingress resource to connect your application to dex:

```yaml
annotations:
  nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-signin: https://$host/dex-authenticator/sign_in
  nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-url: https://my-cool-app-dex-authenticator.my-cool-namespace.svc.{{ cluster domain, e.g., | cluster.local }}/dex-authenticator/auth
  nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-response-headers: X-Auth-Request-User,X-Auth-Request-Email,Authorization

> ```

Reviewer: 2. Connect the app to Dex.

   To do this, add the following annotations to the Ingress resource of the application:
